Aug 2000 -- Developer Release 4 

  Well, this package should still be considered PRE-BETA quality software
but I believe it has progressed out of the pre-alpha stage!  :)  If you
wish to help modify or redistribute this package, please read the file
"COPYING" carefully first for the licensing conditions.  If this file is
missing or is corrupt, the text of the license should be available at:
http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html  (Btw, if your an employee of Corel
Corp. then please read this license no less than hundred times and then
contact me before including this package in any of your products.)

  Some things that you probably already know but I feel a need to state
anyways:

     This project is NOT endorsed, supported or affilated with InterAct
     Accessories, Inc.

     This project is NOT endorsed, supported or affilated with Sony

  My bugs are my own and I have no desire for any lack of quality in
this package to reflect badly on either of these two companies.

  This release is lacking greatly in documentation.  There is no man page
written yet but if you do:  ./dex -h  then it should provide hints as to
how to use it.  There are additional developer notes in the directory
called "notes"  This directory also has a file called "magic" which is
intended to be used with the file(1) command.

  The package is split into two major parts:
    libdexux  (in the libdexux directory)
      - This is a bunch of low level functions for communicating with the
        DexDrive which is available as a library and can be used in other
        GPL projects which are intended to function with the DexDrive
        Note that the API/header file is not finalized yet!

    Dex client (in the main directory)
      - Consider this a reference implimentation on using libdexux.  This
        will eventually be a method in which an end user can use the
        DexDrive via command line.

  To make the package type:   make

  To install the package, copy the "dex" and "dex-off" into an approbate
  bin directory.  If you want to use libdexux in another project then copy
  the library and header file to an approbate location.

To Do (short term) --

WTFM (Write The Fine Manual)
  This package badly needs documentation.  Both C comments and external
  documentation such as man pages.  Every function should have a
  description of purpose and descriptions on both the variables passed
  to it and the variables used internally.

Bang out the bugs
  This *appears* to work.  But, honestly, there is probably still some
  pritty gross bugs in there.  Hopefully with detailed bug descriptions
  these will get ironed out.

To Do (long term) --

KDE or GNOME interface
  The Dex Client provided makes a great interface for those of us that
have taken a liking to the power of the command line.  However, this form
of computer/human interaction is not for everyone.  If a KDE or GNOME
programmer (or someone interested in a project to learn Gtk or Qt
programming) want to GUI the software, I would be happy to assist as much
as I can.  Their is a great DexDrive software package called PSXGameEdit
for Windows from http://moberg-dybdal.dk/psxge/ which might provide a
better idea of how a GUI based package should work.

Non-Playstation Storage
  The price of memory cards have come down greatly and the 132K of storage
provides some interesting possiblities.  For one, it is undersirable to
leave GNU Privacy Guard (GPG) or SSL/TLS private certificates sitting on a
hard drive.  While these private key are usually encrypted with a
passphrase, it is not beyond possiblity that these passphrase will be
discovered by someone else.  Despite this, convience has usually won out
in this area and the private keys are left in a 24x7 accessable area.

  The floppy drive is the other common storage place.  But if the floppy
is left sitting in the drive even when their is not a legitimate need for
the private key to be accessable then we might as well have left it on the
hard drive.  Confirming that a floppy diskette has been removed is not
always trival and some methods require that the software run with root
privilages.  Combine this with the fact that floppy diskettes to not hold
up well to abuse (being tossed in a college student's book bag for
example), it is clear this isn't a desirable solution.

  Playstation memory cards are designed to survive more abuse than other
forms of computer storage.  The DexDrive protocol also provides for
confirming that a card has been inserted or removed.  Hence, it is easier
for a programmer to prompt the user to remove the card and confirm that
the key is no longer available.

  Lastly, the 132K card may lend itself to some "embedded Linux" style
applications.  It may be possible to create a "smart" bootable CDROM which
reads configuration information off the memory card rather than requiring
a floppy or hard disk for configuration storage.


Good luck,
B. Galliart <bgallia@users.sourceforge.net>
